<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-grave-of-the-slave" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Grave of the Slave</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The cold storms of winter shall chill him no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His woes and his sorrows, his pains are all o’er;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sod of the valley now covers his form,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He is safe in his last home, he feels not the storm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The poor slave is laid all unheeded and lone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the rich and the poor find a permanent home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not his master can rouse him with voice of command;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knows not, he hears not, his cruel demand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not a tear, not a sigh to embalm his cold tomb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No friend to lament him, no child to bemoan;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not a stone marks the place, where he peacefully lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The earth for his pillow, his curtain the skies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Poor slave! shall we sorrow that death was thy friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The last, and the kindest, that heaven could sead?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The grave to the weary is welcomed and blest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And death, to the captive, is freedom and rest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-slave-girls-address-to-her-mother" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Slave Girl’s Address to Her Mother</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! mother, weep not, though our lot be hard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we are helpless⁠—God will be our guard:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For He our heayenly guardian doth not sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He watches o’er us⁠—mother, do not weep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And grieve not for that dear loved home no more;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our sufferings and our wrongs, ah! why deplore?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For though we feel the stern oppressor’s rod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet he must yield, as well as we, to God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Torn from our home, our kindred and our friends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in a stranger’s land our days to end,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No heart feels for the poor, the bleeding slave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No arm is stretched to rescue, and to save.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! ye who boast of Freedom’s sacred claims,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do ye not blush to see our galling chains;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hear that sounding word⁠—“that all are free’⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thousands groan in hopeless <em>slavery</em>?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Upon your land it is a cruel stain⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Freedom, what art thou?⁠—nothing but a name.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more, no more! Oh God, this cannot be;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou to thy children’s aid wilt surely flee:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In thine own time deliverance thou wilt give,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bid us rise from slavery, and live.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="past-joys" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Past Joys</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The friends we’ve loved, the home we’ve left,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will ofttimes claim a tear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though of these we are bereft,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Still memory makes them dear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And deep we feel each trifling ill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each sorrow of the soul:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But care we for the painful thrill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That o’er some breasts doth roll?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Poor Afric’s son⁠—ah! he must feel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How hard it is to part</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From all he lov’d⁠—from all that life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had twined around his heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His is a sorrow deeper far,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Than all that we ean show;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His is a lasting grief, o’er which</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No healing balm can flow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The mother, wife, or child he loved,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He ne’er shall see again;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To him they’re lost⁠—ay, dead indeed:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What for him doth remain?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A feeling of deep wretchedness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Comes o’er his troubled soul;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thoughts of home⁠—of other days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In painful visions roll.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His home⁠—ah! that lov’d name recalls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All that was dear to him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But <em>these</em> were scenes he’ll know no more⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He only <em>feels</em> they’ve been.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prayer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Prayer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This sacred right none are denied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which makes the soul to Christ allied;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Man bends the heart and bows the knee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And knows in prayer that he is free.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, free to ask of Him, whate’er</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fainting heart alone can cheer;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To worship at that holy shrine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where beams thy Spirit, Lord, divine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Afric’s children they are free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To breathe their vows, their prayers to Thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With thought of future joy and gain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The slave forgets his grief and pain;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Forgets awhile his slavish fear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgets⁠—that fetters bind him here;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in that sweet communion rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His hopes, his fears⁠—for he is blest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-slave" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Slave</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Our sires who once in freedom’s cause,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their boasted freedom sought and won,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For deeds of glory gained applause,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When patriot feelings led them on.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And can their sons now speak with pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of rights for which they bled and died⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or while the captive is oppressed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Think of the wrongs they once redress’d?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, surely they have quite forgot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That bondage once had been their lot;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sweets of freedom now they know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They care not for the captive’s woe.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The poor wronged slave can bear no part</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In feelings dearest to his heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He cannot speak on freedom’s side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor dare he own a freeman’s pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His soul is dark, ay dark as night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er which is shed no gleam of light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A cloud of error, doubt and fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er him is ever hovering near;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sad and hard his lot must be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To know that he can ne’er be free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To feel that <em>his</em> is doomed to be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A life, and death, of slavery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But will not justice soon arise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And plead the cause of the despised?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For oh! my country, must it be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That they still find a foe in thee?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-farewell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Farewell</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Farewell!⁠—but thou wilt soon forget</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The stranger thou hast seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the gay and busy world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Forget that I have been.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thought of me will scarce intrude,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When other forms are nigh;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who, decked in beauty’s bright array,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall pass before thine eye.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Another’s lips will charm thee then,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Another’s voice will praise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou wilt forget we e’er have met</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In past and happy days.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thou wilt scarcely deign to think</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of friendship’s early dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or cast one glance, in after years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On this poor offering.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Farewell⁠—farewell!⁠—’twere better far</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That we had never met,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than meeting one brief moment here,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To part⁠—and then forget.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-mothers-grief" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Mother’s Grief</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There lies the sole remaining hope</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of all my coming years;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The treasure of my widow’d heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tie that bound me here.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He was the last⁠—the loveliest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And can you blame my grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or chide the falling tears which give</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This bursting heart relief?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There’s nothing left for me to love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This earth holds nothing dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since <em>he</em>, my sweet⁠—my gentle one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is now no longer here.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My poor fond heart had counted on</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Such bliss, in future hours!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I had dreamed his coming days</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Here strewed with fairy flowers!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Perchance ’twas wrong to love him thus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I have been chastised⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For He who gave him to my trust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hath called him to the skies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He was too dear⁠—oh! far too dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The idol of my soul⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then blame me not⁠—this burst of grief</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I cannot now control.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-hibernia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Hibernia</i></h2>
			<p>
				<span>O, speed thee! speed thee! gallant bark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across the bounding wave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou bearest to old Britain’s shores,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Champion of the slave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Propitious breezes waft thee on,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Safe o’er Atlantic’s sea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For many a heart with fervor sends</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A benizon to thee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he who fears not to commit</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His body to thy care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fears not to brave the winds and waves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Knowing that God is there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He goes to raise the standard high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And freedom’s flag unfurl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to proclaim the rallying cry</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of freedom to the world.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then swift and steady be thy flight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across the briny wave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And safely bear, Oh noble bark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Champion of the slave.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Life</h2>
			<p>
				<span>To see our pathway strewn with flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While ’neath their sunny hue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We fear that many a rankling care</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lies hidden from our view;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To cull the flowers, to love their bloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A season to enjoy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To mark the blast that rudely comes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their beauties to destroy:⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Such is our life. How full of change!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How much of hope or fears!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scarce on the cheek is seen the smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ere it is lost in tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To see the cherished things of earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On which we placed the heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fade, one by one, before our eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And silently depart;⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This is our life⁠—and who can tell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What future hours may bring?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What hopes will cheer the panting heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While close to earth we cling?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The morning of our days are bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And could the vision last⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ’tis forbid⁠—oh! changeful life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How soon the dream is past!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-separation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Separation</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>“Friend after friend departs.”</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>And they are gone⁠—that little band</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of friends⁠—the firm and true!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We feel the void which absence makes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With joy, and sorrow too.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We joy that duties call them forth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clad in an armor bright;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With shield of faith, their surest guard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sword of truth and light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We bid God speed their parting steps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bless the righteous cause:⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where’er the path of duty points,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May duty never pause.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And yet, we sorrow most of all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from the heart deplore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That we perchance on earth again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May see these friends no more.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Their works shall live when other deeds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which ask a nation’s fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have sank beneath Time’s whclming wave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unhonored and unnamed.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="my-country" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My Country</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! speak not of heathenish darkness again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor tell me of lands held in error’s dread chain!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where⁠—where is the nation so erring as we,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who claim the proud name of the “<strong>home of the free</strong>”!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What a throb do the lov’d ties of country awake</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the heart of the exile!⁠—for time cannot break</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sweet vision of home, and all he loved well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which has thrown o’er his pathway a magical spell.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can the name of “<strong>my country</strong>’⁠—the deeds which we sing⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be honored⁠—revered⁠—’midst pollution and sin?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can the names of our fathers who perished in fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be hallowed in story, midst slavery’s blight?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When America’s standard is floating so fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I blush that the impress of falsehood is there;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That oppression and mockery dim the high fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That seeks from all nations a patriot’s name.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Speak not of “my country,” unless she shall be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In truth, the bright home of the “brave and the free!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the dark stain of slavery is washed from her hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A tribute of homage she cannot command.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hours-of-childhood" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hours of Childhood</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>
						<span>“Blest hours of childhood! then, and then alone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dance we the revels gay round pleasure’s throne.”</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Dear cherished hours, how much ye tell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of all we’ve known, and loved so well!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On memory’s page there is a leaf,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bearing a trace of pleasures brief;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of schoolday mirth, of pastime gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With which we whiled those hours</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And those we loved in early youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With all the fervency of truth⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They seem to live, and pass us by,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With laughing lip and beaming eye.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each favorite spot, each winding stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where we have watched the bright sunbeam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Appears at memory’s magic spell⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And joys, to which we bid farewell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When grief and bliss are in the train</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of hours we ne’er shall live again;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When sorrow clouds our after years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fills our cup with bitter tears;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis then we wait a sigh to ye</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O by-gone days of memory.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-appeal-to-woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Appeal to Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, woman, woman, in thy brightest hour</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of conscious worth, of pride, of conscious power,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, nobly dare to act a Christian’s part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That well befits a lovely woman’s heart!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dare to be good, as thou canst dare be great;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Despise the taunts of envy, scorn and hate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our “skins may differ,” but from thee we claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A sister’s privilege, in a sister’s name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We are thy sisters⁠—God has truly said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That of one blood, the nations he has made.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, christian woman, in a christian land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Canst thou unblushing read this great command?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Suffer the wrongs which wring our inmost heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To draw one throb of pity on thy part;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our “skins may differ,” but from thee we claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A sister’s privilege, in a sister’s name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, woman!⁠—though upon thy fairer brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hues of roses and of lilies glow⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These soon must wither in their kindred earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From whence the fair and dark have equal birth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let a bright halo o’er thy virtues shed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A lustre, that shall live when thou art dead;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let coming ages learn to bless thy name</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the altar of immortal fame.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-slave-girls-farewell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Slave Girl’s Farewell</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The incident which suggested the following lines is this:⁠—A young girl was living with her mother in one of the West Indian Islands, quite unconscious of her being a slave. Her master, on leaving the Island for a permanent residence in Louisiana, cruelly separated the girl from her parent forever.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Mother, I leave thee⁠—thou hast been,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through long, long years of pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The only hope my fond heart knew;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or e’er shall know again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sails are set⁠—my master waits</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bear me far from thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I linger⁠—can I give thee up,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cross the fearful sea?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, let me gaze! how bright it seems,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As busy memory flies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To view those scenes of other days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath those bright blue skies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The little hut where I have played</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In childhood’s fearless hours⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The murmuring stream⁠—the mossy bank,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where I have gathered flowers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I knew not <em>then</em> I was a slave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or that another’s will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Save thine, could bend my spirit’s pride;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or bid my lips be still.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who now will soothe me at my toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or bathe my weary brow?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or shield me when the heavy lash</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is raised to give the blow?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thy fond arms press me⁠—and I feel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy tears upon my cheek;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tears are the only language now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A mother’s love can speak.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Think of me, mother, as I bend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My way across the sea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And midst thy tears, a blessing waft,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To her who prays for thee.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-prayer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Prayer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Father, we lift the suppliant eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To where thou reigns’t above;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We feel that thou canst not deny</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The children of thy love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unshaken faith, unwavering trust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are all that we ean bring;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We are thy children, though in dust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To thee we dare to cling.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We know that thou wilt not forsake</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The poor and trembling slave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For him the blessed Saviour spake;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And him he came to save.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We feel the chains that bind us all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bend us to man’s will;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But can they hold our souls enthrall’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or bid our voice be still?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No:⁠—for thy power is all supreme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy word shall yet stand firm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And master and the slave shall e’en</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To thee for mercy turn.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
